Show mercy.
Your people have a saying:
"Fool me once, shame on you.
Fool me twice, shame on me."
your credit's no good here.
In other words,
I'll pay you back double
with next month's
replicator rations.
when I let you replicate
That's what you said
all those pork rinds
for your monster
movie marathon.
Let me put it another way.
( loudly ): This is
a life-and-death
situation!
Hyperbole won't help.
I'm not exaggerating.
This is the anniversary
of my first date
with B'Elanna.
And you forgot
all about it?
I don't come through
Yes, and if
with some kind of
romantic dinner...
you've made your case.
All right,
Neelix, you're a saint.
Okay, that'll be one bottle
of Mouton Rothschild--
in the database--
a 2342 if it's
Uh, Terellian pheasant,
steamed asparagus
and a single rose.
Where do you want it?
the food requisition
You can send
to B'Elanna's replicator.
The wine and the flower
I'll take with me.
show up empty-handed.
Well, I can't
Neelix, how about
a pot of coffee
while you're at it?
Coming right up.
Flowers and wine?
Ah, anniversary.
Oh.
Coffee?
Bridge duty.
I've got eight hours
ahead of me.
Sitting in the big chair again?
Fourth night in a row.
( Paris scoffs )
You're not fooling anyone.
Excuse me?
You love these night shifts.
Your chance to play Captain?
I'm not playing.
to get command experience.
This is an opportunity
for some yourself.
You might put in
Oh, what's the point
of trying to compete
with an ambitious
upstart like you?
Just promise me one thing:
When you reach the top,
all the little people
you'll remember
you climbed over to get there,
and you won't make them
work night shifts.
( door opens )
Helm, status?
Same as it was
20 minutes ago.
Refresh my memory.
Current speed-- warp 6.3,
heading 021 mark 2.
( sighing )
Permission to speak freely, sir?
Granted.
We're on the night shift.
Relax.
One of these days,
you'll get the call
to take the Bridge,
and maybe then
the burden of command.
you'll understand
( console beeping )
Report.
It's an automated distress call.
Origin?
Range-- .73 light-years,
A Class-M planet.
bearing 261 mark 15.
a significant course change.
That would be
Burden of command is
on your shoulders, sir.
Of course, we could always
wake Commander Chakotay.
No.
Alter course.
( light dramatic
theme playing )
Open a channel.
of the Starship Voyager.
This is Ensign Kim
Can we be of assistance?
I'm not picking up
on any life signs.
didn't make it.
I guess they
any number of reasons
There could be
why we're not detecting
life signs.
We'll have to go down there
and take a look.
I'll inform the Commander.
the Bridge is yours.
Oh, Jenkins,
( light nervous sigh )
the right decision.
I hope I made
About changing course
or waking me up?
but I thought...
Sorry, sir,
did the right thing
Relax, Harry, you
Thanks.
on both counts.
Hey, why don't you
lead the away team?
progress from the Bridge.
I'll monitor your
Yes, sir.
The distress call
was automated?
That's right.
sent it is still alive.
I'm hoping whoever
Who's leading the mission?
You're looking at him.
Really?
Problem?
given the circumstances--
No. I just thought,
unknown hazards--
a new planet,
or Tuvok would be in charge.
that Commander Chakotay
I am a senior
officer, Doc.
ship for five years.
I've been on this
I think I can handle
an away mission.
I certainly didn't mean
any offense.
None taken.
Of course, having
me on the team
than compensate
will more
for any lack
of experience
on your part.
Energize.
Are you sure
these are
coordinates?
the right
Positive.
Apparently,
whoever sent
the distress call
was rescued.
Maybe, but as long
as we're here,
a thorough search.
we should make
Spread out.
Ensign?
of the distress call.
This is the source
What is it?
I don't know.
a dense energy matrix...
Paratrinic shielding,
bio-neural circuitry?
Bio-neural?
( high-pitched beeping )
Whoa, back off.
This could be dangerous.
No, wait.
( high-pitched beeping )
It's speaking to us.
Speaking?
In duotronic algorithms.
Hold on. My translation matrix
is interpreting.
( beeping continues )
It says it's injured.
It needs our help.
It's asking why it can't see...
or feel its arms and legs.
It's terrified.
( dramatic musical
score playing )
Can you identify yourself?
( beeping )
It's saying that
its memory's
been damaged. It doesn't
remember its name.
( beeping )
Don't worry.
We're going to help you.
( beeping )
( sighing )
will remain with you.
Crewman Lang
What do you think?
An artificial intelligence?
One that doesn't seem to
realize it's artificial.
tell it the truth,
Maybe we should
try to jog its memory.
No. I don't want to risk
psychological trauma.
Psychological trauma?
Doc, this is a machine.
and asking for our help.
One which is confused
We should beam it aboard.
what we're dealing with.
Not until we know
Away mission protocols
dictate that we...
Morality dictates
that we help.
flesh and blood,
It may not be
but it's clearly
in distress.
the day shift.
Make way for
How's he doing?
Well, let's see.
I haven't heard from him
in almost five minutes,
so he should be checking
in right about...
Away team to Voyager.
KIM:
That's our Harry.
...now.
I'd watch out for your job.
If I were you,
Go ahead, Ensign.
of the distress call.
We found the source
It's some kind of artificial
intelligence-- badly damaged.
The Doctor thinks
we should beam it aboard.
of the away mission, Ensign.
You're in charge
What do you think?
Well, I think
we should help it if we can,
but as a precaution,
I recommend
sealing off
an Engineering Bay
with a level-10 force field
and beaming it
directly there.
Agreed. Give us a few minutes.
We're going to transport you
back to our ship.
( beeping )
Emergency Medical Hologram.
I'm Voyager's
( beeping )
A projection
of light and force fields,
guided by an optronic
computer program.
( beeping )
( slight chuckle )
No... technically speaking,
I'm not a real person.
I suppose
How's our patient?
JANEWAY:
Complicated.
TORRES:
It uses bio-neural circuitry
synaptic functions.
to mimic humanoid
But its memory core is damaged.
KIM:
a technological form of amnesia.
It's suffering from
Any theories as to
what it might be?
It could be a probe
TORRES:
or a communications
device.
Whoever our friend is,
he wasn't alone.
traveling with a companion.
He claims to have been
another one down there,
If there's
it might give us
a few answers.
I'll be in Astrometrics
scanning the surface.
Give our guest
my regards.
Of course, Captain.
Lower the containment field.
How are you?
( beeping )
( hesitant sighing )
an interesting question.
Well, that's
Ensign Kim and Lieutenant Torres
are attempting to repair your...
damaged circuitry.
( beeping )
That's... what I wanted to talk
to you about.
You're not an organic being.
You're technological.
( beeping )
You're an artificial
intelligence
embedded in a machine
of some kind.
( beeping )
No, there's no mistake.
you suffered in the crash
We believe the damage
is causing your confusion.
( beeping )
Look at it this way--
have something in common.
you and I
we're not organic beings
Just because
we're in any way inferior.
doesn't mean
( beeping )
Well... you're metallic,
over a meter in length...
cylindrical.
( beeping )
Oh, you're quite sleek,
actually.
( beeping )
You're welcome.
no further technology
I'm detecting
on the planet's surface.
Maybe the second device
was destroyed when it crashed.
Scan for metallic
particulates
consistent with our friend
in Engineering.
There are minute traces
the northern continent.
scattered across
Isolate.
An impact crater.
It spans a radius
of 200 kilometers.
And look at this.
Heavy concentrations
of radiogenic decay
in the crater walls.
And the fracture gradients
are consistent...
with a highly focused
explosion.
discovered its function.
Evidently we've
of mass destruction.
A weapon
I understand
your concerns,
but the device hasn't
shown itself to be hostile.
Not yet, but it's only
a matter of time
the pieces together.
before it puts
All the more reason
we should talk to it;
explain our concerns.
Ask for help in defusing
its explosive components.
If it's programmed
to detonate,
there's no telling
how it'll react.
Agreed. We have to neutralize
the threat, now. Suggestions?
Transport the device
off the ship
before it harms anyone.
and destroy it
Seven, this is a sentient
being we're talking about.
Very well. Return it
to the surface
and deploy a warning buoy
to alert other vessels.
I refuse to believe
our only options are to
kill it or abandon it.
could separate
What if we
the bio-neural circuitry
from the explosive?
but salvage the intelligence.
Take the weapon off-line,
They're fully integrated.
Where would we store
the intelligence
once we shut the device down?
The answer's obvious.
synaptic patterns
Download its
into a holographic
matrix like mine.
Then what?
where it came from
Try to find out
and return it
to its people.
extremely complex.
The device is
One error and we'd
risk detonation.
Saving a life often
entails risk.
assist the Doctor.
Harry, B'Elanna,
Thank you, Captain.
At the first sign of danger,
we transport it off the ship,
understood?
Understood.
( device beeping )
I quite understand.
DOCTOR:
carried around, either.
I wouldn't like being
Of course you are.
( beeping )
Who wouldn't be?
We're taking you
to Sick Bay.
( beeping )
Because we're better equipped
to help you there.
Deck 5.
We're going to transfer
your intelligence
to a holo-matrix.
( beeping )
You should be pleased.
In a little while,
you're going to be
walking around
just like me.
( beeping )
I'm not certain.
Ensign Kim's configuring
your physical parameters
as we speak.
( beeping )
I'm sure you'll be
quite handsome.
Are we ready
to proceed?
Whenever you are.
( device beeping )
Don't be alarmed.
some of your systems
We have to access
to enable the transfer.
( beeping )
He says he wants to know
exactly what you're doing
as you do it.
This is a delicate
procedure.
I won't be able
to concentrate
if I have to give
a blow-by-blow
description.
( beeping )
You'll have to forgive
Lieutenant Torres.
She's an excellent
engineer.
Unfortunately, she doesn't
share my bedside manner.
Harry, would you mind?
Uh, yeah, sure.
KIM:
going to be setting up
Well, first we're
an active interlink
the holo-systems.
between you and
Uh, now, to do that,
your program off-line
we're going to take
your bio-neural circuitry.
while we resequence
( beeping )
He says he can't allow you
to shut him down.
there's no other way.
I'm sorry, but
( alarm blaring )
It's arming itself.
The detonation sequence
has begun.
Sick Bay to Bridge.
The device is going to detonate.
Beam it off the ship.
We've lost the transporter lock.
Talk to it, Doctor.
to destroy yourself, and us.
Please, you're going
Detonation in 20 seconds.
B'Elanna, send an EM pulse
through its power matrix.
Maybe you can short it out.
I'm on it.
15 seconds.
KIM:
Please disarm yourself.
We're just trying to help you.
Ten seconds.
Nine...
Initiating the pulse.
Six... five...
Now!
( powers down )
( sighs )
It worked.
We've shut it down, Captain.
have done that.
You shouldn't
I know you've gotten a little
attached to this thing, but...
You lied.
What are you talking about?
to transfer my neural patterns,
You said you were trying
but you were really trying
to shut me down.
You're the artificial
intelligence.
It used the interlink
to commandeer the
Doctor's program.
Sick Bay to Bridge.
B'ELANNA:
Captain, respond.
into the ship's systems--
He's tapped
deactivated
the com.
He's locked us in, too.
You tried to destroy me.
We were only trying
to disarm you.
I'm a weapon.
Yes.
Why didn't you tell me?
It was a precaution.
We were afraid you
might be dangerous.
Obviously, we were right.
I couldn't let you
destroy me.
I have to complete
my mission.
Yes.
You remember it now?
tactical armor unit.
I'm a long-range
I've been deployed
by my people.
a terrible threat--
They're facing
a hostile species.
My companion unit
was destroyed,
but I will reach
my target.
Your ship will
take me there.
and contact your people.
Look, we'll try
If you could tell
us who they are...
I must resume my mission!
The weapon's been rearmed.
( computer beeping )
Security?
They still can't gain access
to Sick Bay
or any part of Deck 5,
for that matter.
Get a transporter lock
on our people.
damn section if we have to.
We'll jettison the whole
recommend that, Captain.
DOCTOR: I wouldn't
If you try to stop me again,
I'll detonate.
Your ship and everyone on it
will be destroyed.
I'm transferring a new heading
to the helm.
at maximum velocity.
to the coordinates
You'll proceed
Doctor?
He's gone.
He's directing us to a system
2.3 light-years from here.
Is that your home?
It's my target.
bypasses enemy minefields.
The course I've plotted
Your ship won't be harmed.
Don't deviate from it.
Once we've reached the system,
you'll transport me
to my target.
We won't help you wage war.
This crew has a Prime Directive
that forbids us to interfere
in the affairs of other species.
You've already interfered.
We were trying to help you.
Until you discovered
my true nature.
to deactivate me.
Then you tried
Just your explosive
components, not you.
There's no distinction.
I am what I am.
or I'll detonate.
Now alter course
If you do that, you'll never
reach your target, will you?
whatever measures are necessary
I am programmed to take
to obtain my objective.
Failing that,
who tries to stop me an enemy.
I'm to consider anyone
Now alter course, and transfer
your sensors to me,
so I can monitor
your compliance.
from Sick Bay first.
Release my crewmen
I'm not programmed
to negotiate.
They'll remain where they are.
Lay in the course,
Mr. Paris.
Transfer sensors to Sick Bay.
A sound tactical decision,
Captain.
Assemble the staff.
We're going to find a way
to outsmart a smart bomb.
If we can shut down the force
fields around Sick Bay,
transporter lock on it.
I could get a
were successful,
Even if you
we can't beam it
far enough
to escape the blast.
from the ship
Our best option
is to disarm it.
She's right.
Good luck.
It's got an internal
sensor array.
as to loosen a screw-- Boom!
If we try so much
you should take a look at this.
Commander, I think
It's a power node
I used to enhance
the replicator system.
I acquired it last week
on a trading mission.
It has transkinetic
energy regulators
control circuitry.
and bio-neural
of anything?
Remind you
Our friend in Sick Bay.
connection at first,
I didn't make the
a few of the engineers
but when I overheard
talking about the weapon,
I went back and I checked
the schematics on this.
It's the same technology.
Who did you acquire it from?
named Onquanii.
A merchant
Did he say where
he got it?
No, but he seemed
eager to trade.
we make it worth his while.
Maybe he'd tell us if
Scan for his vessel.
send an encoded message.
If you find him,
Tell him about our problem.
Aye, sir.
into the holo-projectors
If we could tap
without his knowing it,
to shut him down.
we might be able
the access codes.
He changed all
The second we try
to decrypt them,
he'll restart
the detonation
sequence.
a better idea?
Do you have
Captain handle it.
Yeah, let the
The last thing anyone
needs is my opinion.
feeling sorry for yourself.
This is no time to be
Chakotay lets me make
a command decision--
I beam a talking
What do I do?
bomb on board.
The first time I commanded
an away mission,
into a cave that I thought
I led my people
military installation.
was a Cardassian
unstable mineral deposits
Turned out I'd mistaken
for weapon signatures.
There was a rock slide
and we were stuck there
for three days.
What did you do?
We dug ourselves out
with our bare hands.
Where are you going?
To dig us out.
to do this, you know.
You don't have
It's what I was
programmed for.
You're a sentient being.
a slave to your programming.
You don't have to be
Look at the Doctor.
He's a tool--
a holographic puppet.
That puppet saved your life.
If it weren't
for him,
and alone on that planet.
you'd still be damaged
He's the one that convinced me
to beam you aboard.
And when we discovered
what you were,
and some people wanted
to destroy you,
the Doctor defended
your right to exist.
What's your point?
programmed to be a Doctor,
Even though he was only
he's become more than that.
he's piloted a starship,
He's made friends,
he even sings.
his achievements,
Despite all of
did he ever stop
being a Doctor?
No, but...
And I can't stop
being a weapon.
Look at yourself.
much more than that.
You're already
You've got a body now,
eyes to see with.
The second you detonate,
that'll all be over.
That's the nature
of what I am.
It doesn't have to be.
your own holo-matrix.
We can give you
as long as you want,
You can exist for
accomplish anything
you set your mind to.
I want to accomplish
The only thing
is the destruction of my target.
What is your target?
A military installation
on Salina Prime,
Grid 11, Vector 9341.
Tell me about it.
Who's the enemy?
A ruthless, violent race
to destroy my people.
that's threatening
do you know about them?
What else
What's their planet like?
Are there forests?
Wildlife?
Schools for the children
of this violent race?
with superfluous data.
I'm not programmed
Well, lucky for you.
You're aboard Voyager now
and you have access
to our scanners.
Why don't we take a closer look
at your target.
A military installation,
as I told you.
But it's manned.
By soldiers.
Who are going to suffer
because of you.
Remember when you
were suffering?
Blind and paralyzed?
Do you really want to make
others go through that?
to protect my people.
I have a duty
I will not betray them.
Now get out
before I'm forced
to harm you!
Nice try.
I'm reading a subspace surge
off our port bow.
It looks like
a cloaked ship.
That could be him.
in a cloaked vessel.
Onquanii travels
We're being hailed,
audio only.
Open a channel.
good to see you again.
ONQUANII: Voyager,
And you, sir.
I received your message.
Have you an intelligent weapon
in your possession?
we're in its possession.
Actually,
We're being held hostage.
Do you know anything
about this weapon?
If I'm correct,
it was created by a species
named the Druoda.
I've studied their technology.
Bring me aboard.
I can assist you.
You've deactivated
your com system?
in this section.
And reinforced
the shielding
We won't be overheard.
in your security precautions,
I'd have more faith
if you weren't already at
the mercy of this weapon.
We didn't know
what it was
when we brought
it aboard.
a class-11 intelligence factor.
This particular series has
fully armored, self-guiding.
It's warp-capable,
It has a maximum range
of 80 light-years.
It can fly through an ion storm
or an armada of hostile ships
and still find its target.
Charming.
How do I get it off my ship?
You can't,
but I can.
employs a dampening field,
My transporter system
which disables
the detonator
until my engineers
can disarm it.
That's a generous offer.
you expect in return?
Mind if I ask what
The device itself.
a weapon of mass destruction
I'm not about to hand over
to someone I just met.
is salvage, not war.
Oh, my business
I've no intention
of deploying it.
But you might sell it
to someone who does.
to make quite a profit.
I imagine you'd stand
by selling off its components.
I can make more profit
can power a fleet of starships,
The energy matrix alone
and its intelligence core,
properly reprogrammed,
in a variety of things,
can assist
from terraforming
to planetary weather control.
You can have the weapon
All right.
as long as we keep
the energy matrix.
That way we can be sure
no one ever deploys it.
I'm afraid that's
unacceptable.
The energy matrix
valuable components.
is one of the most
I'm sorry. It's not open
for negotiation.
a few dilithium crystals
We could offer you
in compensation.
a thousand dilithium crystals.
That matrix is worth
What if we threw in
a plasma manifold?
I want the entire weapon
or it remains here.
Captain?
You seem awfully intent
interested in salvage.
for someone only
waste your time.
I'm sorry to
We'll have to find
another way
our problem.
to solve
I wish you luck.
Sorry, Captain,
NEELIX:
it would help.
I thought
Bridge, report.
The alien vessel
has opened fire.
PARIS:
We've lost weapons and shields.
Sick Bay to Captain.
What's happening?
We're under attack.
JANEWAY:
How many ships?
One... off the port bow.
Return fire.
Check your sensors.
We can't.
Our weapons are off-line.
Sick Bay are destabilizing.
Force fields around
He's trying to get
a transporter lock
on the weapon.
Remodulate the shields.
No effect.
What are you doing?
The weapon's sending
an antimatter surge
the transporter beam.
back through
They've been destroyed.
That wasn't necessary.
They were an enemy.
DOCTOR:
Maintain course.
the weapon's schematics.
I've studied
My nanoprobes can be adapted
bio-neural circuitry.
to disable its
However, I would need
direct access
to its primary control port.
That means
getting you
into Sick Bay without
arousing suspicion.
We could access the holo-matrix
controls above Sick Bay,
disrupt the Doctor's program
long enough for Seven
to inject
the nanoprobes.
would you need?
How much time
Approximately
20 seconds.
on that subspace minefield
Run a long-range scan
it warned us about.
their explosive yield...
Calculate
they might to do the ship.
what kind of damage
Aye, Captain.
TUVOK:
What have you
got in mind?
I have a feeling
we're about to run
into some
unexpected trouble.
the alien minefield
We've analyzed
and calculated the effect
it would have on Voyager.
I think I can simulate
the explosions
with a well-timed disruption
to the inertial dampers.
to give you a bumpy ride
Of course, asking me
is like asking a virtuoso
to sing off-key.
I'm sure
you'll manage.
The weapon has access
to our sensors.
How do we make sure
it won't catch on?
We've reconfigured
the sensor array
to send it false telemetry.
we're navigating a minefield.
It will believe
At least long enough for us
to get Seven to Sick Bay.
How?
Medical emergency.
third-degree plasma burns
I intend to suffer
during our encounter
with the mines.
That's where I come in.
Chief Cosmetics Officer,
at your service.
Another hidden talent, Neelix?
Well, I know my way around
a dermal regenerator.
I should be able to simulate
a convincing wound.
Okay. We get her inside.
Then what?
will be in position
Commander Tuvok
to disrupt the Doctor's program.
Once that happens, I will inject
and disable the weapon.
the nanoprobes
I'll inform the Captain.
Get started.
Do well on this mission, Neelix,
and maybe the Captain
will promote you
to Senior Beautician.
Assist me.
With what?
I'm trying
to identify
that caused me to crash,
the malfunction
but several of my memory files
are still damaged.
Restore them.
We tried helping
it before.
that got us.
Look where
"When taken captive
by a hostile force
seek out any opportunity
to engage the assailant."
the Officers' Manual?
Didn't you ever read
Section 126.
Starfleet diplomacy
I don't think
is going to work this time.
If we cooperate, we'll be
giving it the advantage.
If there's even a chance
that we can convince it
to change its mind...
It's a bomb, Harry.
A sentient bomb.
I said assist me!
DOCTOR:
Where do we start?
There are several disruptions
in my memory index,
minute, 37 second gap
including a three
to the crash.
just prior
search algorithm
A recursive
the missing data.
might retrieve
There.
a subspace transmission--
You received
a command to alter course
toward the planet's surface.
and head
Looks like your landing
wasn't an accident.
It was an attempt by the enemy
to divert me from my target.
No, your access codes
are encrypted.
They must've developed
an infiltration code.
What if it wasn't the enemy?
Who else would try
to divert me?
Correct me if I'm wrong,
the same duotronic algorithms
but these are
to communicate with.
that you use
My own people wouldn't try
to stop me.
Maybe they changed their mind.
The enemy is ruthless.
My target is a threat.
Why would my people call off
the assault?
some more of these memory files,
If we clear up
maybe we'll find out.
Your assistance is
no longer required.
What's wrong?
you might find out
You afraid
destroy that installation?
you're not supposed to
Let us finish the job.
Then you can decide
with the information.
what you want to do
Proceed.
"Strategic Command Matrix"
Does the name
mean anything to you?
That's my control center.
They ordered my launch.
Well, it looks like your
orders were rescinded.
See for yourself.
tactical armor units...
"All long-range
terminate mission immediately."
Keep reading.
It says... the war is over.
It ended nearly
three years ago.
My launch was
a mistake.
in one of the command sensors.
There was a malfunction
It activated a series
of launch sequencers.
to shut most of them down,
My people managed
but 34 weapons were fired...
including me.
I guess this means
KIM:
you can disarm
yourself now.
confirmation code here.
No. There's no
so they're trying to deceive us!
the enemy's minefield,
We avoided
your damaged memory files.
could be in one of
The confirmation
deceiving me to implement
Or maybe it was you
your pacifist philosophy.
That's not true.
Why should I trust you now?
You lied to me before.
No!
You don't have to trust us,
just access those files.
to destroy my target!
I am programmed
I will complete my mission!
If the war is over, you could
end up starting another one.
How many of your people
will die then?
( explosion )
Sick Bay to Bridge.
DOCTOR:
Report.
a subspace mine.
We've run into
We had to drop
out of warp.
There shouldn't be mines
along this course.
thousands of them
We're detecting
CHAKOTAY:
scattered throughout the region.
We're plotting a new
course to avoid them.
Transmit it to me.
This trajectory will delay us
for two days.
That'll give you time
to confirm that the war is over.
No! Proceed as planned.
a shield enhancement
I'm programming
that will protect Voyager.
to have to reduce speed.
I'm still going
Agreed,
we've cleared the minefield.
but only until
Maintain course, Mr. Paris.
One-quarter impulse.
Think he bought it?
He seemed to.
good shake just to be sure.
Let's give him another
Yes, ma'am.
That was another mine.
The shields will hold.
Tuvok to Bridge.
I've accessed the holo-matrix.
Acknowledged.
JANEWAY:
Janeway to Neelix.
Casualty report.
touches on Seven's plasma burn
I'm putting the finishing
pretty authentic,
and it looks
if I do say so myself.
Good work. Stand by.
JANEWAY:
Time to hit another mine, Tom--
a big one.
the plasma relays on Deck 6.
Commander, blow out
We have heavy casualties.
Janeway to Sick Bay.
That's going to be difficult.
Maintain heading and speed.
Our Astrometrics Officer
has been injured.
She's the one who's been guiding
us through the minefield.
Replace her.
Seven of Nine's abilities
are unique.
We're not going to get past
these mines without her.
and send her back to her post.
Then treat her injuries
She has third-degree
plasma burns.
She needs to go to Sick Bay
to be treated.
If you want to reach
your target,
you're going to have to wait.
but I'm warning you...
All right, Captain,
No deceptions.
Janeway to Neelix.
Go.
( door chimes )
( groaning )
Treat her as quickly
as possible.
( beeping )
They're in.
Now, Tuvok.
Bridge, my holo-matrix
is destabilizing.
Why?
to our secondary systems.
We took damage
Repair them.
the detonation sequence.
Now! Or I'll activate
Stand by.
What's going on?
to defuse the weapon.
She's trying
Seven!
She's going into
neural shock.
Help me.
Sick Bay to Bridge.
Your attempt to disable me
did not succeed.
I am designed to repel
on my bio-neural circuitry.
any assault
We've tried to reason with you.
You left me no choice.
And you leave me no choice.
You and your crew will abandon
Voyager immediately.
No deal.
This is not a negotiation!
Comply or I will detonate!
Go ahead. Do it.
Everyone on board
will be killed!
But no one else will.
just dropped out of warp
Captain, 32 vessels
off our port bow.
On screen.
One of them is transmitting
a message...
to the "Doctor."
Bridge to Sick Bay.
We've got company--
32 self-guided weapons.
They detected my presence
aboard your vessel.
They say my target
is essential.
to ensure that I reach it.
They altered course
to transport off your vessel.
They are ordering me
They will tractor me
to my target.
Mr. Kim, reintegrate
its neural matrix,
and prepare to beam it off--
that, Captain.
We can't do
Explain.
These weapons were
fired by accident.
reach their targets.
We can't let them
order him to proceed!
Enough! Captain,
Harry, what are you
talking about?
Captain, I need
a minute.
You're making a mistake.
tried to disarm you.
Your own people
I cannot be certain of that.
Yes, you can.
your memory files.
You can check
confirmation code.
Look for the
No more delays.
Check the files.
Reintegrate my matrix.
No!
or you're not leaving this ship.
Do what Harry says
You're in no position
to give me orders.
DOCTOR:
If you detonate now,
you'll destroy yourself
and your companions.
Is that what you want?
The confirmation code.
Coding intersequence
443, vector 39121.
Cessation of hostilities...
confirmed.
Unauthorized launch...
Order to terminate mission...
confirmed.
You must disarm yourself
and tell the others
to stand down.
It's a deception.
This code of yours uses
a modulating algorithm.
impossible to duplicate.
It would be almost
The enemy is ruthless;
they are violent.
Have you ever
met the enemy?
You're just spouting
propaganda,
programmed to believe.
what you've been
I have a directive.
countermanded!
It's been
I am a Series 5,
long-range
designed to traverse enemy space
tactical armor unit
all attempts to deter me.
and circumvent
You're a sentient being.
to protect my people,
I have a duty
to destroy my target!
You've been programmed
with intelligence,
so you could make decisions
on your own.
Well, it's time to make one.
Countless lives are at stake!
Ever since you took
the Doctor's form,
you've been learning what
it's like to be one of us.
Now, try to imagine
what it's like to be
one of your victims--
your first victim.
her suffering.
You've seen
factor of one million--
Increase that by a
ten million--
suffering you'll cause
and that's how much
if you don't end this.
( high-pitched beeping )
I haven't left your ship.
They're asking why
Tell them.
I'm transmitting our orders
to terminate the mission.
( relieved sigh )
( high-pitched beeping )
They also received
those orders,
already crossed
but they had
the targeting
threshold.
light-years of our target,
Once we're within two
we cannot be diverted.
( sighs )
Tell them the war's over.
I did.
Tell them you got the message
before you crossed
the threshold,
the planet's surface.
when you were on
( high-pitched beeping )
They don't believe me.
to make them understand.
It's up to you
They only understand
their directive.
They won't listen.
Reintegrate my
neural matrix
and return me
to the others.
We won't do that.
of proceeding to my target.
I have no intention
I will stop them.
How?
of mass destruction.
I am a weapon
past my programming...
You want me to see
then you must try to
see past your doubts.
B'Elanna...
give me a hand.
Bridge, lock on to the weapon.
Prepare to beam it into space.
Harry, what's going on?
JANEWAY:
Captain, no time to explain.
Just trust me on this one.
loud and clear, Ensign.
I hear you
Do it.
the bio-neural matrix.
I've reconfigured
Ready?
I'm sorry.
I am simply completing
my mission.
Only the target has changed.
Transfer complete.
Please state the nature
of the...
How long was I off-line?
What happened?
Seven needs your help.
We'll explain later.
Bridge, energize.
They've gone
into warp.
Maintain long-range sensors.
of antimatter explosions.
I'm detecting a series
In proximity
to what?
no planets...
No ships,
nothing.
Bridge to Ensign Kim.
The weapons have been destroyed.
( sighs )
Anyone home?
Ensign.
Feeling well, I hope?
On my way to the Bridge
Perfect.
for another night shift.
Came by to check on Seven.
You just missed her.
What's her prognosis?
She'll need another
week of regeneration,
but I expect she'll
make a full recovery.
Good news.
responsible for her injuries,
Oh, considering I was
you can imagine my relief.
Well, you weren't exactly
yourself at the time.
I was the one who asked you
That's not what I mean.
to bring that device aboard
in the first place.
I even argued with the Captain
to keep it aboard
after we learned what it was.
"It" was an artificial
intelligence, like you,
but I have to admit,
seem like Mr. Congeniality.
his personality made you
Look, Doc, the truth is,
through to him without you.
I never would've gotten
From what I heard,
I wasn't much help.
You were.
I held you up as an example
an artificial intelligence
of how
could exceed its programming.
I didn't realize how true
that was... until today.
It seems your strategy worked.
Thank you.
I better get to the Bridge.
You never know when Ensign Kim
to take command again.
will be called upon
Voyager could do worse.
Helm, status.
Current speed-- warp 5.
Heading-- 021 mark 3.
long-range sensors?
Anything on
Nothing to report.
As you were.
Permission to speak
freely, sir.
Why would tonight
be any different?
People have been
talking about you.
Oh?
you were the one
Rumor has it
who outsmarted
the smart bomb.
Well... not exactly.
I made first contact
with a sentient being.
understand a few things.
All I did was help it
The rest was up to him.
Understood.
Actually, I've been authorized
by the junior staff
to thank you for keeping us
in one piece.
You're welcome.
Any time.
Do me a favor.
Of course, sir.
No more distress calls.
At least not tonight.
( dramatic theme
music playing )